---
tags:
  - evergreen
created: 2024-03-22
---
- In order to convince and inspire others to follow and accomplish a mission, a leader must be a true believer in the mission. ([Location 1240](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B0739PYQSS&location=1240))
- If a leader does not believe, he or she will not take the risks required to overcome the inevitable challenges necessary to win. ([Location 1242](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B0739PYQSS&location=1242))
- Leaders must always operate with the understanding that they are part of something greater than themselves and their own personal interests. They must impart this understanding to their teams down to the tactical-level operators on the ground. Far more important than training or equipment, a resolute belief in the mission is critical for any team or organization to win and achieve big results. ([Location 1243](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B0739PYQSS&location=1243))
- In many cases, the leader must align his thoughts and vision to that of the mission. Once a leader believes in the mission, that belief shines through to those below and above in the chain of command. Actions and words reflect belief with a clear confidence and self-assuredness that is not possible when belief is in doubt. ([Location 1247](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B0739PYQSS&location=1247))
- The challenge comes when that alignment isn’t explicitly clear. When a leader’s confidence breaks, those who are supposed to follow him or her see this and begin to question their own belief in the mission. ([Location 1249](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B0739PYQSS&location=1249))
- Every leader must be able to detach from the immediate tactical mission and understand how it fits into strategic goals. When leaders receive an order that they themselves question and do not understand, they must ask the question: why? Why are we being asked to do this? Those leaders must take a step back, deconstruct the situation, analyze the strategic picture, and then come to a conclusion. If they cannot determine a satisfactory answer themselves, they must ask questions up the chain of command until they understand why. If frontline leaders and troops understand why, they can move forward, fully believing in what they are doing. ([Location 1251](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B0739PYQSS&location=1251))